# Blogger README

## Development

To run the code:

```bash
yarn            # to install packages
yarn develop    # run development
```

To edit the code, everything is in the `src` directory.

!! Do not touch the `gatsby-types.d.ts` file, that is autogeneratedby **Gatsby** to help your typescript development.

## Post Writing Guide

### File Structure

It is important for you to put the right file in the right place so then **Gastby** can go through them to build the entire blog, please remember that our entire deployment are static files, so, the source material has to be placed correctly in order to get a proper deployment

```bash
#Simply put, every post has to be included in posts

gatsby-blog/           # package root
├─ node_modules/
├─ posts/              # all posts must be put in this directory
│  ├─ post_1.mdx          # a post can be as simple as an MDX file
│  ├─ post_2/             # if a post has multiple files, make a directory
│     ├─ index.mdx        # the MDX file contains the main write-up, it has to be named "index.mdx"
│     ├─ image_a.png      # all the images and other assets should be included in the same directory
│     ├─ image_b.jpg
│
⋮
├─ src/                # this is where the source code of the blog goes, please DO NOT TOUCH
├─ .gitignore
├─ package.json
├─ README.md           # this very file

```

### MDX writing

So, firstly, an MDX file does everything an MD file did. we assume you already know how to write in the Markdown format (.MD files), here's is a reference to the [basic syntax](https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/) just in case things slipped my memory.

Then secondly, the X in the MD**X**! It makes 3 things possible:-

1. **_Frontmatter metadata_** - **Utmost Important**, on every post you write, you **NEED** to fill this in
2. **_JSX Injections_** - namesake of the **X** in MD**X**, it makes making extremely fancy html pages alongside the regular MD text possible, but dont worry about this it's just not a thing we want to do everyday.
3. **_Shortcode Injections_** - Simplified version of **_pt2_**; some features such as `<Links .../>` and `<Youtube ... embeds/>, it's made possible via this feature.

#### Frontmatter Metadata

At the top of each MDX file, you fill in the metadata in between 2 breaks consists of 3 dashes `---`, like this:

```md
---
title: News Post 1
slug: /news-1
date: 2024-07-25
author: wil
category: news
---

# Post Title

rest of doc
⋮
⋮
end of doc
```

There is not any limitation to what could be filled in as metadata from the MDX perspective, it depends on our blog system, in which, here are the metadata our blog needs:

```
---
title: <string>              # required
slug:  <string:path>         # required see slug path
date: <string:YYYY-MM-DD>    # required, eg: 2024-07-29
category: <string:category>  # required, category: see categories
featured: <boolean>          # optional, boolean: "true" / "false"
author: <string:author/any>  # optional, author: see authors
featuredImage: <string:path> # optional, see image path
tags: <string:csv>           # optional, see tags
---
```

##### Required Field

if you missed an required field, this post will still be compiled, but it will not show up on any of our blog rolls

##### Categories

We have different blog-roll pages for different type of blog-posts, and this depends on the category field, the currently available categories are:

- blog
- news

##### Featured

In some blog-roll pages, we have featured articles, if a post has the following field:

```
featured: true
```

It will should up first in its blog-roll as a featured article

##### Author

We could put any string in here, but if you provide us your author tag name and thumbnail, we can put it in the system. So then, when you use a name that is in the system, you can get a thumbnail, it is also **_potentially_** possible to click your name into _a page that consists of all your post_

!! author pages is yet to be implemented

##### Featured Image

The featured image will show up as the thumbnail of the posts in its blog-roll, and also as the top hero image in the blog-post-page, just refere to the image from your post's directory like the following

```
featuredImage: "./2D_many_phases.png"
```

If you do not provide a featured image, on its corresponding blog-rolls, a placeholder would would be shown as its thumbnail; in the post, there will be no hero image.

##### Tags

This is important for the related posts section at the end of each blog posts. Let's try to cooperated during stand-up meetings and make sure we are making new tags that we can re-use to futher categorize posts in a category.

Bottomline being, e.g. when you are on _post-a_, how does its _related posts_ section knows that _post-b_ should be shown? It is simply because they have the same values in their **_Tags_** field.
